---
title: Start of WDI at General Assembly
---
It feels like ages since I have started my course at GA and have already made some great friends whom I will be working with for the next 3 months.

Last month I quit my job as an IT recruiter to start a journey as a full time web developer. After University, I never thought that I would be going back to education again for at least a couple of years, however, here I am after 9 months after graduation. It has been my first week and I can’t believe the amount of information I have managed to take in during one week! If you don’t know what to expect, they were not kidding when they tell you to prepare for a 3months coding apocalypse requiring your absence from your once so relaxed and eventless life.

On Day 1, we were introduced to the WDI course and got to know everyone. We started to go through the “Installfest” where we all installed various programs that we will be using for the next 3 months (more like forever) on our computers. In the afternoon we were taught the basics of the software development process and started to learn more about working in different IT environments such as Agile and Waterfall. To put this to practise, we did a mini group exercise  creating a paper plane using both those methodologies and examine the different outcomes, which was really fun.

Day 2 – Today we were introduced to git which is a distributed version control system and is going to become our best friend, at least thats what we were told.  We learnt how to work with github to push and pull data from our personal laptop to a git server. It is also where all our classwork, homework and lesson notes are going to be. Git is used for developers working on the same project as a group, so they can control the different versions of code they are writing.

In the afternoon, we started coding Ruby basics and moved onto control flows. We were learning two different method statements (e.g. if and case) and loops (e.g. while and until). At the end we were paired for a lab exercise where we were tasked to create a simple math game. My partner and I created a game that asks the user to guess our age. The game had loops for every time the user guessed wrong which was quite fun to present and make.

For homework we had to create several files doing different types of simple mathematic problems such as a basic calculator and a Body Mass Index (BMI) calculator. This was pretty straight forward and did not take long.

On the morning of Day 3 Gerry told us how to create a server using Github.com. We were shown how to fork servers to create a duplicate on our local machine allowing us to push and pull our work onto- and from Github. We then went onto getting to know how the web actually works with a breakdown of exactly what happens when someone searches something online.

In the afternoon, we had out first lesson on JavaScript. Previous WDI’s have started JS much later on in the course (week 6 or something) and for us this is something new. We were shown the differences between JavaScript all the things we learnt in Ruby. Overall, it was not much different to learning Ruby. It should probably be mentioned that Ruby is much more user-friendly, as the creator Yukihiro Matsumoto says himself “I hope to see Ruby help every programmer in the world to be productive, and to enjoy programming, and to be happy.” On the contrary, Brendan Eich created the first version of JavaScript in 10 days, so you get the point. Our homework for today was to again create a calculator which was more advanced than the one we created in Ruby, which was a really fun challenge.

All I remember from Day 4 was the homework, The MTA subway problem. We were given an image of 3 train lines, each with different numbers of stations, but all intersecting at one specific station. Our task was to create a program which could calculate the number of stops between each stop regardless of which line and station you start and finish from. This was the hardest part of the week by far! To write this code to find the required solution was particularly challenging. After 4 hours of coding alongside 2 of my other classmates we finally managed to solve it, and it really was not easy! This challenge really demonstrated how rewarding good teamwork can be, as we all used our individual strengths to finally pull together a workable solution.

I am actually so glad it’s Friday. I wouldn’t say I’m fully drained and exhausted but getting to sleep a little more tomorrow is going to be a nice treat! Today it was mostly a recap session reviewing last nights’ homework that a lot of people struggled with. After we all went out for lunch and the rest of the day it was pretty relaxed and just going over everything we learnt this week to clarify any questions. For our weekend homework we were given a new pre-work for JavaScript similar to the Ruby one we had before the start of the course. This is because we are doing JS much earlier now and they want us to be on the same wave length on both languages.

Overall, it has been a great week at GA. It feels like I have learnt more during this week than during my entire maths degree! Jokes aside, I am actually looking forward to next week with all its challenges. I am now 1/12th Developer! 5 days done, 55 to go.

